{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf610
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 HelveticaNeue;\f1\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue0;\red9\green80\blue208;
}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\csgray\c0;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;\cssrgb\c0\c41176\c85098;
}
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf2 From: james@agu.org\
Subject: 2019MS001776 (Editor - Eleanor Blyth): Decision Letter\
Date: October 19, 2019 at 12:11:43 AM GMT+2\
To: csierra@bgc-jena.mpg.de\
Reply-To: james@agu.org\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f1 \cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec3 Dear Dr. Sierra: \
\
Thank you for submitting your manuscript entitled "Mathematical reconstruction of land carbon models from their numerical output: computing soil radiocarbon from 12C dynamics" [Paper #2019MS001776] to Journal of Advances in Modeling Earth Systems. I have received 2 reviews of your manuscript, which are included below and/or attached. Based on the reviews, your manuscript may be suitable for publication after minor revisions. \
\
The feedback provided in the reviewer assessments of your manuscript is important and should be taken into account as you complete your revision. \
\
Please submit a revised manuscript that responds to or addresses the comments by October 24, 2019. \
\
In your revision, please follow our {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://publications.agu.org/author-resource-center/checklists-and-templates/"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul \ulc4 \strokec4 Checklist}} and use our {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://publications.agu.org/author-resource-center/checklists-and-templates/"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul \ulc4 \strokec4 Templates}} for the main file and any supporting information. Please provide the following: \
\
1. A response to reviewer file that lists each major comment and describes how the manuscript has/has not been modified in response to those comments. \
\
2. A copy of the manuscript with the changes noted (e.g., highlighted, "track changes," italics or bold changes). \
\
3. The final revised manuscript with the changes incorporated and separate final figure files (figure parts should be combined into a single file), which will be used for publication if the manuscript is accepted. If final figures are already uploaded, they can be easily copied over to the next revision version. \
\
4. If any, supporting information text figures, captions, and small tables in a single PDF file using AGU's template. Large data tables, and multimedia should be uploaded separately in their native format (preferably .xlsx or .csv for tables). \
\
AGU requires that data needed to understand and build upon the published research be available in public repositories following {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://publications.agu.org/author-resource-center/publication-policies/data-policy/data-policy-faq/"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul \ulc4 \strokec4 best practices}}. This includes an explicit statement in the Acknowledgments section on where users can access or find the data for this paper. Citations to archived data should be included in your reference list and all references, including those cited in the supplement, should be included in the main reference list. All listed references must be available to the general reader by the time of acceptance. AGU {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://eos.org/agu-news/agu-opens-its-journals-to-author-identifiers"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul \ulc4 \strokec4 requires}} the corresponding author, and encourages all authors, to register for an {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://orcid.org/"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul \ulc4 \strokec4 ORCID}}. \
\
Please check and verify authorship, and that all authors are included, have approved the revisions, and agreed to be listed in the order given. Authorship is final with publication. Responsibilities of the corresponding author are given {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://publications.agu.org/author-resource-center/text-requirements/"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul \ulc4 \strokec4 here}}. \
\
When you are ready to submit your revision, please login to your account ({\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://james-submit.agu.org/cgi-bin/main.plex"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul \ulc4 \strokec4 https://james-submit.agu.org/cgi-bin/main.plex}}) and click "Revise 2019MS001776." \
\
I look forward to receiving your revised manuscript. If you have any questions, or need additional time to complete your revisions, please contact us at james@agu.org. \
\
Yours sincerely, \
\
Eleanor Blyth \
Editor \
Journal of Advances in Modeling Earth Systems \
\
\
------------IMPORTANT INFORMATION------------------------ \
Additional information on text preparation, formatting, acceptable file formats, supporting information, graphics preparation, and AGU style, is {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://publications.agu.org/author-resource-center/"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul \ulc4 \strokec4 here}}. AGU has recently {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://publications.agu.org/agu-grammar-and-style-guide/"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul \ulc4 \strokec4 updated}} its styles. \
\
Sharing your work is an important part of the research process, and AGU leverages and shares published research to promote the {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://eos.org/editors-vox/earth-and-space-science-for-the-benefit-of-humanity"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul \ulc4 \strokec4 broader importance}} of Earth and space science. Learn how you can {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://publications.agu.org/author-resource-center/promote-your-paper/"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul \ulc4 \strokec4 promote your paper}}, including how your paper can be considered for additional publicity or for the issue cover. \
\
------------------------------------------------------------------------------- \
Associate Editor Evaluations: \
\
Associate Editor (Remarks to Author): \
\
I agree with two reviewers that the authors presented a robust study that computes radiocarbon values for assessing carbon cycling rates in Earth system reservoirs. The approach significantly contributes to Earth System Modeling communities. Meanwhile, I suggest the authors carefully address the comments and suggestions from reviewer #2. \
\
\
Reviewer #1 Evaluations: \
Recommendation: Publish in present form \
Significant: Yes, the paper is a significant contribution and worthy of prompt publication. \
Supported: Yes \
Referencing: Yes \
Quality: Yes, it is well-written, logically organized, and the figures and tables are appropriate. \
Data: Yes \
\
Reviewer #1 (Formal Review for Authors (shown to authors)): \
\
The manuscript presents a nice way to mathematically compute radiocarbon values in soils from the output of Earth System Models. Authors discussed mathematical details of the approach along with examples using three different soil profiles. In my opinion, the manuscript is publishable in JAMES in its present form. \
\
\
Reviewer #2 Evaluations: \
Recommendation: Return to author for minor revisions \
Significant: Yes, the science is at the forefront of the discipline. \
Supported: Yes \
Referencing: Yes \
Quality: Yes, it is well-written, logically organized, and the figures and tables are appropriate. \
Data: Yes \
\
Reviewer #2 (Formal Review for Authors (shown to authors)): \
\
In this study, Metzler and his colleagues provide a very important and interesting approach to benchmark global land carbon-cycle models based on radiocarbon data. This approach could be a great contribution to connect the research communities of Earth system modeling and radiocarbon. I have carefully studied their mathematic assumptions and derivation. I found their work is solid, though the writing is very technical for both Earth system modelers and empirical scientists who use radiocarbon as their major research tools. Thus, I only have some broad suggestions on discussion and a few specific suggestions on the details. Overall, I recommend JAMES to publish this work with some minor revisions. \
\
Page 13, Lines 278-292: The authors used the accelerated-decomposition approach to spin up their model. The "1000yr+400yr" spinup time seems common for a global model, but it might be careful for a global model with 10 vertical layers. The criterion of <0.01% yr-1 change usually cannot constrain the steady state of passive SOC pool in deep soils, which has a large pool size but very low turnover rate. This issue must has a small impact on the results in this study, but may generate some errors when apply their approach for long-term approximation. \
\
Page 15, Lines above 312: It is good to gradually introduce the approach from single to two compartment system. How about to give one or two real examples of natural ecosystems for the "two compartment system" here? For example, vegetation-soil could be a nice "two compartment system". I feel this may make these equations more understandable for an empirical scientist. \
\
Page 24, Line 401-402: The authors suggest that using their proposed approach can avoid rewriting the model in matrix form. I agree that rewriting the models into matrix form is not necessary for the benchmarking analysis based on radiocarbon data. However, as I know, one goal of the traceability framework in Luo et al. (2017) and Xia et al. (2013) was to enhance the understandability of the spread results among different models. As also highlighted by some recent papers (e.g., Bonan et al. 2019GBC), understanding the difference between models itself becomes very important for model improvements. In my opinion, the approach in Metzler et al.'s paper has shown the great potential to use matrix approach to improve the Earth system models, even without the information of model structure. However, this approach could be more efficient if some additional outputs or information could be provided by the community of Earth system model. I highly recommend the authors to add some detailed suggestions here for the CMIP6 community to promote the application of the matrix approach. \
\
Application of the Metzler et al.'s approach to CMIP6 models: the timestep of model output is usually monthly, and only a few variables have daily outputs. The bias of the matrix approximation is relatively larger in the surface soil layers as shown in Fig. 4, even with a 10-day output timestep. So, it would be great if the authors can show how their approach performs with the monthly outputs. If the bias is large, then a recommendation of weekly output could make for the ESM community, at least for the historical runs. \
\
\
\
\
If any reviewers made annotations to the pdf, there will be a link to the pdf. }